feat(lambda-go): higher level construct for golang lambdas (#11842)
aws/aws-cdk: packages/@aws-cdk/aws-lambda-golang/README.md

# Amazon Lambda Golang Library
<!--BEGIN STABILITY BANNER-->

---

![cdk-constructs: Experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/cdk--constructs-experimental-important.svg?style=for-the-badge)

> The APIs of higher level constructs in this module are experimental and under active development.
> They are subject to non-backward compatible changes or removal in any future version. These are
> not subject to the [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) model and breaking changes will be
> announced in the release notes. This means that while you may use them, you may need to update
> your source code when upgrading to a newer version of this package.

---

<!--END STABILITY BANNER-->

This library provides constructs for Golang Lambda functions.

> To use this module you will need to have Docker installed.

Reviewer: Is it possible to offer a local bundling experience that does not require docker to be installed? (similar to how `NodejsFunction` allows you to install `esbuild` locally)

Author: Good catch, this comment should be removed since it does support local bundling.

Author: Updated!

This module also requires that your Golang application is
using a Go version >= 1.11 and is using [Go modules](https://golang.org/ref/mod).

## Golang Function

Define a `GolangFunction`:

```ts

> new lambda.GolangFunction(this, 'handler', {

Reviewer: Should this be `GolangFunction` or just `GoFunction` (same question for the module name `nodejs-go`). 

@MrArnoldPalmer @RomainMuller curious what you'll think

Author: I like this better too, I'll update.

Author: Updated!

  entry: 'app/cmd/api'
});
```

> By default, if a folder path is provided as the `entry`, the construct will assume there is a go entry file (i.e. `main.go`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, if `entry` point to a directory, the construct will assume there is a Go entry file called `main.go`.
```

What happens if `entry` is a file?

Author: It works both ways (file or directory). I've updated the property docs to explain what happens either way.

```bash
lamda-app
├── cmd
│   └── api
│       └── main.go
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
├── pkg
│   ├── auth
│   │   └── auth.go
│   └── middleware
│       └── middleware.go
└── vendor
    ├── github.com
    │   └── aws
    │       └── aws-lambda-go
    └── modules.txt
```

With the above layout I could either provide the `entry` as `lambda-app/cmd/api` or `lambda-app/cmd/api/main.go`, either will work.
When the construct builds the golang binary this will be translated `go build ./cmd/api` & `go build ./cmd/api/main.go` respectively.
The construct will figure out where it needs to run the `go build` command from, in this example it would be from
the `lambda-app` directory. It does this by determining the [mod file path](#mod-file-path), which is explained in the
next section.

### mod file path

The `GolangFunction` tries to automatically determine your project root, that is
the root of your golang project. This is usually where the top level `go.mod` file or
`vendor` folder of your project is located. When bundling in a Docker container, the
`modFilePath` is used as the source (`/asset-input`) for the volume mounted in
the container.

The CDK will walk up parent folders starting from

> the current working directory until it finds a folder containing a `go.mod` file.

Reviewer: Is it the current working directory or the directory of `entry`?

> Alternatively, you can specify the `modFilePath` prop manually. In this case you

Reviewer: It's not clear if `modFilePath` is the path to the `go.mod` file or the directory in which the `go.mod` file exists.

I am wondering if perhaps it would be more straightforward to call this `moduleDir`

By default it will use the `PROVIDED_AL2` runtime. The `GO_1_X` runtime does not support things like
[Lambda Extensions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/using-extensions.html), whereas the provided runtimes do.
The [aws-lambda-go](https://github.com/aws/aws-lambda-go) library has built in support for the provided runtime as long as
you name the handler `bootstrap` (which we do by default).

## Dependencies

The construct will attempt to figure out how to handle the dependencies for your function. It will
do this by determining whether or not you are vendoring your dependencies. It makes this determination
by looking to see if there is a `vendor` folder at the [mod file path](#mod-file-path).

With this information the construct can determine what commands to run. You will
generally fall into two scenarios:

1. You are using vendoring (indicated by the presence of a `vendor` folder)
   In this case `go build` will be run with `-mod=vendor` set
2. You are not using vendoring (indicated by the absence of a `vendor` folder)
   If you are not vendoring then `go build` will be run without `-mod=vendor`

>     since the default behavior is to download dependencies

Author: If you are not vendoring your dependencies in a `vendor` directory in the project, then Go will download dependencies into the [module cache](https://golang.org/ref/mod#glos-module-cache). If you have a `vendor` directory then Go will use the dependencies there and not make any network calls. If you are using `-mod=readonly` or `-mod=mod` then Go will use the module cache or make network calls to download/update dependencies in the module cache. [go build docs](https://golang.org/ref/mod#build-commands).

Some people prefer to vendor their dependencies and check it in to source control, while others prefer to have Go download the dependencies into the module cache during build.

new lambda.GolangFunction(this, 'handler', {
  entry: 'app/cmd/api',
  bundling: {
    buildArgs: {
      HTTPS_PROXY: 'https://127.0.0.1:3001',
    },
  },
});
```

Use the `bundling.dockerImage` prop to use a custom bundling image:

```ts
new lambda.GolangFunction(this, 'handler', {
  entry: 'app/cmd/api',
  bundling: {
    dockerImage: cdk.DockerImage.fromBuild('/path/to/Dockerfile'),
  },
});
```

Use the `bundling.goBuildFlags` prop to pass additional build flags to `go build`:

```ts
new lambda.GolangFunction(this, 'handler', {
  entry: 'app/cmd/api',
  bundling: {
    goBuildFlags: ['-ldflags "-s -w"'],
  },
});
```

## Command hooks

It is  possible to run additional commands by specifying the `commandHooks` prop:

```ts
new lambda.GolangFunction(this, 'handler', {
  bundling: {
    commandHooks: {
      // run tests
      beforeBundling(inputDir: string): string[] {
        return ['go test ./cmd/api -v'];
      },
      // ...
    },
  },
});
```

The following hooks are available:

* `beforeBundling`: runs before all bundling commands
* `afterBundling`: runs after all bundling commands

They all receive the directory containing the `go.mod` file (`inputDir`) and the

> directory where the bundled asset will be output (`outputDir`). They must return

Reviewer: The example doesn't seem to include `outputDir`

an array of commands to run. Commands are chained with `&&`.

The commands will run in the environment in which bundling occurs: inside the
container for Docker bundling or on the host OS for local bundling.

## Additional considerations

Depending on how you structure your Golang application, you may want to change the `assetHashType` parameter.
By default this parameter is set to `AssetHashType.OUTPUT` which means that the CDK will calculate the asset hash
(and determine whether or not your code has changed) based on the Golang executable that is created.

> If you specify `AssetHashType.SOURCE`, the CDK will calculate the asset hash by looking at the folder

Reviewer: Any reason not to use SOURCE as  the default?

It seems to me that using SOURCE as the default is a better choice for go, while requiring that `go.sum` is included. The benefit of using SOURCE is that it can skip the _build_ if the source did not change.

that contains your `go.mod` file. If you are deploying a single Lambda function, or you want to redeploy
all of your functions if anything changes, then `AssetHashType.SOURCE` will probaby work.

For example, if my app looked like this:

```bash
lamda-app
├── cmd
│   └── api
│       └── main.go
├── go.mod

> ├── go.sum

Reviewer: This should be _required_

└── pkg
    └── auth
        └── auth.go
```

> With this structure I would provide the `entry` as `cmd/api` which means that the CDK

Reviewer: Rephrase README content not to include first-person sentences

using a Go version >= 1.11 and is using [Go modules](https://golang.org/ref/mod).

## Golang Function

Define a `GolangFunction`:

```ts
new lambda.GolangFunction(this, 'handler', {
  entry: 'app/cmd/api'
});
```

By default, if a folder path is provided as the `entry`, the construct will assume there is a go entry file (i.e. `main.go`).
Let's look at an example Go project:

```bash
lamda-app
├── cmd
│   └── api
│       └── main.go
├── go.mod
├── go.sum
├── pkg
│   ├── auth
│   │   └── auth.go
│   └── middleware
│       └── middleware.go
└── vendor
    ├── github.com
    │   └── aws
    │       └── aws-lambda-go
    └── modules.txt
```

With the above layout I could either provide the `entry` as `lambda-app/cmd/api` or `lambda-app/cmd/api/main.go`, either will work.
When the construct builds the golang binary this will be translated `go build ./cmd/api` & `go build ./cmd/api/main.go` respectively.
The construct will figure out where it needs to run the `go build` command from, in this example it would be from
the `lambda-app` directory. It does this by determining the [project root](#project-root), which is explained in the
next section.

> ### Project root

Reviewer 2: This is now `modFilePath` in your code

The `GolangFunction` tries to automatically determine your project root, that is
the root of your golang project. This is usually where the top level `go.mod` file or
`vendor` folder of your project is located. When bundling in a Docker container, the
project root is used as the source (`/asset-input`) for the volume mounted in
the container.

> The following folders are considered by walking up parent folders starting from

Reviewer 2: There's is only one...

   In this case `go build` will be run with `-mod=vendor` set
2. You are not using vendoring (indicated by the absence of a `vendor` folder)
   If you are not vendoring then `go build` will be run without `-mod=vendor`
    since the default behavior is to download dependencies

All other properties of `lambda.Function` are supported, see also the [AWS Lambda construct library](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/tree/master/packages/%40aws-cdk/aws-lambda).

## Environment

By default the following environment variables are set for you:

* `GOOS=linux`
* `GOARCH=amd64`
* `GO111MODULE=on`

Use the `environment` prop to define additional environment variables when go runs:

```ts
new lambda.GolangFunction(this, 'handler', {
  entry: 'app/cmd/api',
  bundling: {
    environment: {
      HELLO: 'WORLD',
    },
  },
});
```

## Docker

To force bundling in a docker container, set the `forceDockerBundling` prop to `true`. This

Use the `buildArgs` prop to pass build arguments when building the bundling image:

```ts
new lambda.GolangFunction(this, 'handler', {
  entry: 'app/cmd/api',
  bundling: {
    buildArgs: {
      HTTPS_PROXY: 'https://127.0.0.1:3001',
    },
  },
});
```

> Use the `bundlingDockerImage` prop to use a custom bundling image:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `bundling.dockerImage` prop to use a custom bundling image:
```

```ts
new lambda.GolangFunction(this, 'handler', {
  entry: 'app/cmd/api',
  bundling: {
    dockerImage: dk.BundlingDockerImage.fromAsset('/path/to/Dockerfile'),
  },
});
```

> Use the `goBuildFlags` prop to pass additional build flags to `go build`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `bundling.goBuildFlags` prop to pass additional build flags to `go build`:
```

```ts
new lambda.GolangFunction(this, 'handler', {
  entry: 'app/cmd/api',
  bundling: {
    goBuildFlags: ['-ldflags "-s -w"'],
  },
});
```

## Command hooks

> It is  possible to run additional commands by specifying the `commandHooks` prop:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is possible to run additional commands by specifying the `commandHooks` prop:
```

```ts
new lambda.GolangFunction(this, 'handler', {
  bundling: {
    commandHooks: {
      // run tests
      beforeBundling(inputDir: string): string[] {
        return ['go test ./cmd/api -v'];
      },
      // ...
    },
  },
});
```

The following hooks are available:

* `beforeBundling`: runs before all bundling commands

> * `beforeInstall`: does not run

Reviewer 2: is not implemented

```suggestion
```

Author: @jogold I removed this, but I had originally left it there to remind myself to ask you about this. I remember a comment on the PR where you added commandHooks that mentioned making these mandatory so that all languages would have a similar experience. https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/pull/11583#discussion_r530391166

Reviewer 2: You can safely remove it. The discussion was about making the methods in `ICommandHooks` mandatory or not so that the experience in all the _JSII translated languages_ would be the same.

Author: Ok cool.
